{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GillSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red9\green80\blue208;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c41176\c85098;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
We'd be happy to share our model, the sustained attention connectome-based predictive model (CPM). The attached saCPM.mat file contains the high-attention and low-attention network masks. Each mask is a symmetric 268 x 268 matrix with 1s where edges are in the network and 0s elsewhere. The high-attention network has 757 edges (so, 1514 ones in the mask) and the low-attention network has 630 edges (1260 ones in the mask). \
\
To check whether high- and low-attention network strength are related to sustained attention in a new dataset, investigators can use test_saCPM.m to take the dot product between the network masks and each subject's connectivity matrix. (Matrices should be calculated with the 268-node Shen 2013 atlas available here {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.nitrc.org/frs/?group_id=51"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 https://www.nitrc.org/frs/?group_id=51}}. The preprocessing and connectivity methods we use are detailed in our previous papers.) We evaluate predictive power by correlating the resulting network strength values with behavior across subjects. We expect a positive relationship between high-attention network strength and a measure of sustained attention, and an inverse relationship between low-attention network strength and attention.\
\
In our papers we also report predictions of a general linear model that includes as features both high- and low-attention network strength. This model is implemented on line 54 of test_saCPM.m. The model transforms an individual\'92s network strength to predicted d', or how we'd expect subjects to perform on the gradual-onset continuous performance task, a test of sustained attention described in Rosenberg et al., 2016, Nature Neuro. We expect GLM predictions to be positively correlated with a measure of sustained attention. \
\
Recently, however, we decided to update the original GLM. This is because, in our original training dataset, high- and low-attention network strength were strongly anticorrelated by design. Thus, the GLM was fit with collinear predictors \'96 redundant \'96 so that the weakened coefficient was not meaningful. The high/low-attention network distinction is mainly useful for understanding the neuroanatomy of predictive edges.\
\
To simplify things, we\'92ve updated the GLM using the exact same training data as the original GLM, but with only one predictor (low-attention network strength subtracted from high-attention network strength), a single coefficient, and an intercept. This model is implemented on line 59 of test_saCPM.m. We\'92ve confirmed that predictions of the original and updated GLMs are nearly identical.\
}