{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red9\green80\blue208;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c41176\c85098;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A pain-related skin conductance response (SCR)/Electrodermal Response (EDR) measure\
\
Based on:\
Matthewson, Woo et al. in press, Pain; \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Matthewson, Gordon, Choong-Wan Woo, Marianne C. Reddan, and Tor D. Wager. 2018. \'93Cognitive Self-Regulation Influences Pain-Related Physiology.\'94 bioRxiv. https://doi.org/10.1101/361519.\
https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/361519v2.abstract
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For the SCR/EDA pattern:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/canlab/cognitive_regulation_physiology"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 https://github.com/canlab/cognitive_regulation_physiology}}\
\
Weight pattern can be found in https://github.com/canlab/cognitive_regulation_physiology/tree/master/data\
\
SCR_weights.mat\
ECG_weights.mat\
\
Each one has the 500x1 vector for intensity and unpleasantness. \
To use it, you would need to apply it to an EDA time series locked to stimulus onset. It was validated to pain intensity under variations in painful stimulation, with limited specificity to pain, as described in our paper (Matthewson, Woo et al. in press, Pain; Bioarxiv https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/361519v2.abstract). However, it has not been broadly validated to be specific to pain, so there is no set cutoff for the amplitude of the integrated measure that signals \'93pain\'94. \
}