{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 GillSans;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Masks from:\
\
Lopez-Sola, M., Woo, C. W., Pujol, J., Deus, J., Harrison, B. J., Monfort, J., & Wager, T. D. (2017). Towards a neurophysiological signature for fibromyalgia. Pain, 158(1), 34-47.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf0 \
Please 
\f0\fs24 cite this paper if you use the masks.\

\f1\fs28 \
These NPSp and NPSs masks are different from those of Krishnan et al., 2016, eLife. Krishnan used neursynth positive and neurosynth negative pain masks separately. This means: Neurosynth positive: the regions that are MOST probably related to pain. Neurosynth neg: the regions that are most probably NOT related to pain processing. \
\
These masks for NPSp and NPSn regions were created by Marina Lopez-Sola and Tor Wager.  NPSp are the regions with positive FDR-corrected peaks within the NPS that are within pain activated regions. The NPSn are the regions with negative corrected peaks (corresponding to deactivations), excluding the visual cortex, so that they comprise a set of \'91self-referential\'92 regions. \
\
The NPS is from:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Wager, T.D., Atlas, L.T., Lindquist, M.A., Roy, M., Choong-Wan, W., Kross, E. (2013). An fMRI-Based Neurologic Signature of Physical Pain. The New England Journal of Medicine. 368:1388-1397\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf0 \
}